## GUI Toolkit Library (libgui)

[FLTK](http://www.fltk.org/) is a graphical C++ library that has been implemented for various platforms, including Windows and Mac OS. We have embedded FLTK into a Tamgu library in order to add GUI capabilities to the language. Although not all features of FLTK have been implemented in the Tamgu library, the available methods are sufficient for building simple yet powerful interfaces.

To use this library, include the following line at the beginning of your file:

```cpp
use("gui");
```

Note:
- Tamgu has been linked with FLTK 1.3.
- The associate function methodology has been extended to most graphical objects.

### Common Methods (Section 53.1)

Most of the objects described in the next section share the following methods, which are used to handle the label associated with a window, a box, an input, etc. These methods, when used without any parameters, return their current value.

Methods:

1. `align(int a)`: Defines the label alignment.
2. `backgroundcolor(int color)`: Sets or returns the background color.
3. `coords()`: Returns a vector of the widget coordinates.
4. `coords(int x, int y, int w, int h)`: Sets the widget coordinates. It also accepts a vector instead of the four values.
5. `created()`: Returns true if the object has been correctly created.
6. `hide()`: Hides a widget.
7. `label(string txt)`: Sets the label with a new text.
8. `labelcolor(int c)`: Sets or returns the font color of the label.
9. `labelfont(int f)`: Sets or returns the font of the label.
10. `labelsize(int i)`: Sets or returns the font size of the label.
11. `labeltype(int i)`: Sets or returns the font type of the label.
12. `selectioncolor(int color)`: Sets or returns the widget selected color.
13. `show()`: Shows a widget.
14. `timeout(float f)`: Sets the timeout of an object within a thread.
15. `tooltip(string txt)`: Associates a widget with a tooltip.

### Label Types (Section 53.1)

The following label types are available:

- FL_NORMAL_LABEL
- FL_NO_LABEL
- FL_SHADOW_LABEL
- FL_ENGRAVED_LABEL
- FL_EMBOSSED_LABEL

### Alignment (Section 53.1)

The following alignment options are available:

- FL_ALIGN_CENTER
- FL_ALIGN_TOP
- FL_ALIGN_BOTTOM
- FL_ALIGN_LEFT
- FL_ALIGN_RIGHT
- FL_ALIGN_INSIDE
- FL_ALIGN_TEXT_OVER_IMAGE
- FL_ALIGN_IMAGE_OVER_TEXT
- FL_ALIGN_CLIP
- FL_ALIGN_WRAP
- FL_ALIGN_IMAGE_NEXT_TO_TEXT
- FL_ALIGN_TEXT_NEXT_TO_IMAGE
- FL_ALIGN_IMAGE_BACKDROP
- FL_ALIGN_TOP_LEFT
- FL_ALIGN_TOP_RIGHT
- FL_ALIGN_BOTTOM_LEFT
- FL_ALIGN_BOTTOM_RIGHT
- FL_ALIGN_LEFT_TOP
- FL_ALIGN_RIGHT_TOP
- FL_ALIGN_LEFT_BOTTOM
- FL_ALIGN_RIGHT_BOTTOM
- FL_ALIGN_NOWRAP
- FL_ALIGN_POSITION_MASK
- FL_ALIGN_IMAGE_MASK

### Bitmap (Section 53.2)

The bitmap type is used to define a bitmap image that can be displayed in a window or a button. It exposes only one specific method:

Methods:

1. `load(ivector bm, int w, int h)`: Loads a bitmap image from an ivector, whose dimensions are w and h.

Example:

```cpp
ivector sorceress = [
0xfc, 0x7e, 0x40, 0x20, 0x90, 0x00, 0x07, 0x80, 0x23, 0x00, 0x00, 0xc6,
0xc1, 0x41, 0x98, 0xb8, 0x01, 0x07, 0x66, 0x00, 0x15, 0x9f, 0x03, 0x47,
0x8c, 0xc6, 0xdc, 0x7b, 0xcc, 0x00, 0xb0, 0x71, 0x0e, 0x4d, 0x06, 0x66,
0x73, 0x8e, 0x8f, 0x01, 0x18, 0xc4, 0x39, 0x4b, 0x02, 0x23, 0x0c, 0x04 ,
0x1e, 0x03, 0x0c, 0x08, 0xc7, 0xef, 0x08, 0x30, 0x06, 0x07, 0x1c, 0x02,
0x06, 0x30, 0x18, 0xae, 0xc8, 0x98, 0x3f, 0x78, 0x20, 0x06, 0x02, 0x20,
0x60, 0xa0, 0xc4, 0x1d, 0xc0, 0xff, 0x41, 0x04, 0xfa, 0x63, 0x80, 0xa1,
0xa4, 0x3d, 0x00, 0x84, 0xbf, 0x04, 0x0f, 0x06, 0xfc, 0xa1, 0x34, 0x6b,
0x01, 0x1c, 0xc9, 0x05, 0x06, 0xc7, 0x06, 0xbe, 0x11, 0x1e, 0x43, 0x30,
0x91, 0x05, 0xc3, 0x61, 0x02, 0x30, 0x1b, 0x30, 0xcc, 0x20, 0x11, 0x00,
0xc1, 0x3c, 0x03, 0x20, 0x0a, 0x00, 0xe8, 0x60, 0x21, 0x00, 0x61, 0x1b,
0xc1, 0x63, 0x08, 0xf0, 0xc6, 0xc7, 0x21, 0x03, 0xf8, 0x08, 0xe1, 0xcf,
0x0a, 0xfc, 0x4d, 0x99, 0x43, 0x07, 0x3c, 0x0c, 0xf1, 0x9f, 0x0b, 0xfc,
0x5b, 0x81, 0x47, 0x02, 0x16, 0x04, 0x31, 0x1c, 0x0b , 0x1f, 0x17, 0x89,
0x4d, 0x06, 0x1a, 0x04, 0x31, 0x38, 0x02, 0x07, 0x56, 0x89, 0x49, 0x04,
0x0b, 0x04, 0xb1, 0x72, 0x82, 0xa1, 0x54, 0x9a, 0x49, 0x04, 0x1d, 0x66,
0x50, 0xe7, 0xc2, 0xf0, 0x54, 0x9a, 0x58, 0x04, 0x0d, 0x62, 0xc1, 0x1f,
0x44 , 0xfc, 0x51, 0x90, 0x90, 0x04, 0x86, 0x63, 0xe0, 0x74, 0x04, 0xef,
0x31, 0x1a, 0x91, 0x00, 0x02, 0xe2, 0xc1, 0xfd, 0x84, 0xf9, 0x30, 0x0a,
0x91, 0x00, 0x82, 0xa9, 0xc0, 0xb9, 0x84, 0xf9, 0x31, 0x16, 0x81, 0x00,
0x42, 0xa9, 0xdb, 0x7f, 0x0c, 0x ff, 0x1c, 0x16, 0x11, 0x00, 0x02, 0x28,
0x0b, 0x07, 0x08, 0x60, 0x1c, 0x02, 0x91, 0x00, 0x46, 0x29, 0x0e, 0x00,
0x00, 0x00, 0x10, 0x16, 0x11, 0x02, 0x06, 0x29, 0x04, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00,
0x10, 0x16, 0x91, 0x06, 0xa6, 0x2a, 0x04, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x18, 0x24,
0x91, 0x04, 0x86, 0x2a, 0x04, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x18, 0x27, 0x93, 0x04,
0x96, 0x4a, 0x04, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x04, 0x02, 0x91, 0x04, 0x86, 0x4a,
0x0c, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x1e, 0x23, 0x93, 0x04, 0x56, 0x88, 0x08, 0x00,
0x00, 0x00, 0x90, 0x21, 0x93, 0x04, 0x52, 0x0a, 0x09, 0x80, 0x01, 0x00,
0xd0, 0x21, 0x95, 0x04, 0x57, 0x0a, 0x0f, 0x80, 0x27, 0x00, 0xd8, 0x20,
0x9d, 0x04, 0x5d, 0x08, 0x1c, 0x80, 0x67, 0x00, 0xe4, 0x01, 0x85, 0x04,
0x79, 0x8a, 0x3f, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0xf4, 0x11, 0x85, 0x06, 0x39, 0x08,
0x7d, 0x00, 0x00, 0x18, 0xb7, 0x10, 0x81, 0x03, 0x29, 0x12, 0xcb, 0x00,
0x7e, 0x30, 0x28, 0x00, 0x85, 0x03, 0x29, 0x10, 0xbe , 0x81, 0xff, 0x27,
0x0c, 0x10, 0x85, 0x03, 0x29, 0x32, 0xfa, 0xc1, 0xff, 0x27, 0x94, 0x11,
0x85, 0x03, 0x28, 0x20, 0x6c, 0xe1, 0xff, 0x07, 0x0c, 0x01, 0x85, 0x01,
0x28, 0x62, 0x5c, 0xe3, 0x8f, 0x03, 0x4e, 0x91, 0x80, 0x05, 0x39, 0x40,
0xf4, 0xc2, 0xff, 0x00, 0x9f, 0x91, 0x84, 0x05, 0x31, 0xc6, 0xe8, 0x07,
0x7f, 0x80, 0xcd, 0x00, 0xc4, 0x04, 0x31, 0x06, 0xc9, 0x0e, 0x00, 0xc0,
0x48, 0x88, 0xe0, 0x04, 0x79, 0x04, 0xdb, 0x12, 0x00, 0x30, 0x0c, 0xc8,
0xe4, 0x04, 0x6d, 0x06, 0xb6, 0x 23, 0x00, 0x18, 0x1c, 0xc0, 0x84, 0x04,
0x25, 0x0c, 0xff, 0xc2, 0x00, 0x4e, 0x06, 0xb0, 0x80, 0x04, 0x3f, 0x8a,
0xb3, 0x83, 0xff, 0xc3, 0x03, 0x91, 0x84, 0x04, 0x2e, 0xd8, 0x0f, 0x3f,
0x00, 0x00, 0x5f, 0x83, 0x84, 0x04, 0x2a, 0x70, 0xfd, 0x7f, 0x00, 0x00,
0xc8, 0xc0, 0x84, 0x04, 0x4b, 0xe2, 0x2f, 0x01, 0x00, 0x08, 0x58, 0x60,
0x80, 0x04, 0x5b, 0x82, 0xff, 0x01, 0x00, 0x08, 0xd0, 0xa0, 0x84, 0x04,
0x72, 0x80, 0xe5, 0x00, 0x00, 0x08, 0xd2, 0x20, 0x44, 0x04, 0xca, 0x02,
0xff, 0x00, 0x00, 0x08, 0xde, 0xa0, 0x44, 0x04, 0x82, 0x02, 0x6d, 0x00,
0x00, 0x08, 0xf6, 0xb0, 0x40, 0x02, 0x82, 0x07, 0x3f, 0x00, 0x00, 0x08,
0x44, 0x58, 0x44, 0x02, 0x93, 0x3f, 0x1f, 0x00, 0x00, 0x30, 0x88, 0x4f,
0x44, 0x03, 0x83, 0x23, 0x3e, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x18, 0x60, 0xe0, 0x07,
0xe3, 0x0f, 0xfe, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x70, 0x70, 0xe4, 0x07, 0xc7, 0x1b,
0xfe, 0x01, 0x00, 0x00, 0xe0, 0x3c, 0xe4, 0x07, 0xc7 , 0xe3, 0xfe, 0x1f,
0x00, 0x00, 0xff, 0x1f, 0xfc, 0x07, 0xc7, 0x03, 0xf8, 0x33, 0x00, 0xc0,
0xf0, 0x07, 0xff, 0x07, 0x87, 0x02, 0xfc, 0x43, 0x00, 0x60, 0xf0, 0xff,
0xff, 0x07, 0x8f, 0x06, 0xbe, 0x87, 0x00, 0x30, 0xf8, 0xff, 0xff, 0x07,
0x8f, 0x14, 0x9c, 0x8f, 0x00, 0x00, 0xfc, 0xff, 0xff, 0x07, 0x9f, 0x8d,
0x8a, 0x0f, 0x00, 0x00, 0xfe, 0xff, 0xff, 0x07, 0xbf, 0x0b, 0x80, 0x1f,
0x00, 0x00, 0xff, 0xff, 0xff, 0x07, 0x7f, 0x3a, 0x80, 0x3f, 0x00, 0x80,
0xff, 0xff, 0xff, 0x07, 0xff, 0x20, 0xc0, 0x3f, 0x00, 0x80, 0xff, 0xff,
0xff, 0x07, 0xff, 0x01, 0xe0, 0x7f, 0x00, 0xc0, 0xff, 0xff, 0xff, 0x07,
0xff, 0x0f, 0xf8, 0xff, 0x40, 0xe0, 0xff, 0xff, 0xff , 0x07, 0xff, 0xff,
0xff, 0xff, 0x40, 0xf0, 0xff, 0xff, 0xff, 0x07, 0xff, 0xff, 0xff, 0xff,
0x41, 0xf0, 0xff, 0xff, 0xff, 0x07];
use("gui");
bitmap b;
b.load(sorceress, 75, 75);

function affiche(window w, self e) {
    println("ICI");
    w.bitmap(b, FL_RED, 50, 50, 275, 275);
}

window w;
w.begin(30, 30, 500, 500, "Test");
w.bitmap(b, FL_RED, 50, 50, 75, 75);
w.end();
w.run();
```

### Image (Section 53.3)

The image object is used to load an image from a GIF or a JPEG file, which can then be used with a window object or a button object through the `image` method.

Methods:

1. `loadjpeg(string filename)`: Loads a JPEG image.
2. `loadgif(string filename)`: Loads a GIF image.

Utilization:

Once an image object has been declared, you can load your file and use this object in the different image methods (button and window mainly) when available.

Example:

```cpp
use('gui');
image im;
im.loadjpeg(_current + "witch.jpg");
window w;
w.begin(30, 30, 1000, 1000, "Image");
w.image(im, 100, 100, 500, 500);
w.end();
w.run();
```

### Window (Section 53.4)

The window type is the entry point of this graphical library. It exposes many methods, which can be used to display boxes, buttons, sliders, etc.

Methods:

1. `alert(string msg)`: Pops up a window to display an alert.
2. `arc(float x, float y, float rad, float a1, float a2)`: Draws an arc.
3. `arc(int x, int y, int x1, int y1, float a1, float a2)`: Draws an arc.
4. `ask(string msg, string buttonmsg2, string buttonmsg1, ...)`: Pops up a window to pose a question, return 0, 1, 2 according to which button was pressed up to 4 buttons.
5. `begin(int x, int y, int w, int h, string title)`: Creates a window and begins initialization. w and h are optional.
6. `bitmap(bitmap image, int color, int x, int y)`: Displays a bitmap at position x, y.
7. `bitmap(bitmap image, int color, int x, int y, int w, int h)`: Displays a bitmap: x, y, w, h define the including box.
8. `border(bool b)`: If true, adds or removes borders. With no parameter, returns if the window has borders.
9. `circle(int x, int y, int r, int color)`: Draws a circle. 'color' is optional. It defines which color will be used to fill the circle.
10. `close()`: Closes the window.
11. `create(int x, int y, int w, int h, string title)`: Creates a window without widgets. w and h are optional.
12. `cursor(int cursortype, int color1, int color2)`: Sets the cursor shape.
13. `drawcolor(int c)`: Sets the color for the next drawings.
14. `drawtext(string l, int x, int y)`: Puts a text at position x, y.
15. `end()`: Ends creation.
16. `flush()`: Forces a redraw of all windows.
17. `font(int f, int sz)`: Sets the font name and its size.
18. `fontnumber()`: Returns the number of available fonts.
19. `get(string msg)`: Displays a window to get a value.
20. `getfont(int num)`: Gets font name.
21. `getfontsizes(int num)`: Returns a vector of available font sizes.
22. `hide(bool v)`: Hides the window if v is true, shows it otherwise.
23. `image(image image, int x, int y, int w, int h)`: Displays an image.
24. `initializefonts()`: Loads fonts from the system. Returns the number of available fonts.
25. `line(int x, int y, int x1, int y1, int x2, int y2)`: Draws a line between points. x2 and y2 are optional.
26. `lineshape(int type, int width)`: Selects the line shape and its thickness.
27. `lock()`: FLTK lock.
28. `menu(vector, int x, int y, int w, int h)`: Initializes a menu with its callback functions.
29. `modal(bool b)`: If true, makes the window modal. With no parameter, it returns if the window is modal.
30. `onclose(function, object)`: Defines a callback function to be called when the window is closed.
31. `onkey(int action, function, object)`: Sets the callback function on a keyboard action with a given object as a parameter.
32. `onmouse(int action, function, object)`: Sets the callback function on a mouse action with a given object as a parameter.
33. `ontime(function, float t, object o)`: Defines a callback function to be called every t seconds.
34. `password(string msg)`: Displays a window to type in a password.
35. `pie(int x, int y, int x1, int y1, float a1, float a2)`: Draws a pie.
36. `plot(fvector xy, int thickness, fvector landmark)`: Plots a graph from a table of successive x, y points according to window size. If thickness === 0, then points are continuously plotted; else, it defines the diameter of the point. Returns a float vector used with plotcoords. The landmark vector is optional.
37. `plotcoords(fvector landmark, float x, float y)`: Computes the coordinates of a point (x, y) according to the previous scale computed with plot. Returns a vector of two elements [xs, ys] corresponding to the screen coordinates in the current window.
38. `point(int x, int y)`: Draws a pixel.
39. `polygon(int x, int y, int x1, int y1, int x2, int y2, int x3, int y3)`: Draws a polygon. x3 and y3 are optional.
40. `popclip()`: Releases a clip region.
41. `position()`: Returns a vector of the x, y position of the window.
42. `position(int x, int y)`: Positions the window at the coordinates x, y.
43. `post(function f, …)`: Used in threads to postpone the execution of a function f with its parameters in the main thread.
44. `pushclip(int x, int y, int w, int h)`: Inserts a clip region with the following coordinates.
45. `rectangle(int x, int y, int w, int h, int c)`: Draws a rectangle with optional color c.
46. `rectanglefill(int x, int y, int w, int h, int c)`: Fills a rectangle with optional color c.
47. `redraw()`: Redraws the window.
48. `redrawing(float t)`: Redraws a window every t time lapse.
49. `resizable(object)`: Makes the object resizable.
50. `rgbcolor(int color)`: Returns a vector of the color decomposition into RGB components.
51. `rgbcolor(int r, int g, int b)`: Returns the int corresponding to the combination of RGB components.
52. `rgbcolor(vector rgb)`: Returns the int corresponding to the combination of RGB components stored in a vector.
53. `rotation(float x, float y, float distance, float angle, bool draw)`: Computes the coordinate of a rotated point from point x, y using a distance and an angle. Returns a vector of floats with the new coordinates. If draw is true, then the line is actually drawn.
54. `run()`: Launches the GUI.
55. `scrollbar(int x, int y, int wscroll, int hscroll, int vwscroll, vhscroll)`: Creates a scrollbar zone of actual dimension x, y, wscroll, hscroll, but within a virtual zone up to vwscroll, vhscroll. Requires a window callback function to draw within this zone.
56. `size()`: Returns a 4-value vector of the window size.
57. `size(int x, int y, int w, int h)`: Resizes the window.
58. `sizerange(int minw, int minh, int maxw, int maxh)`: Defines the range in which the size of the window can evolve.
59. `textsize(string l)`: Returns a map with w and h as keys to denote the width and height of the string in pixels.
60. `unlock()`: FLTK unlock.

### Drawing Complex Shape

The following instructions extend the above instructions:

1. `pushmatrix()`
2. `popmatrix()`
3. `scale(float x, float y)`
4. `scale(float x)`
5. `translate(float x, float y)`
6. `rotate(float d)`
7. `multmatrix(float a, float b, float c, float d, float x, float y)`
8. `transformx(float x, float y)`
9. `transformy(float x, float y)`
10. `transformdx(float x, float y)`
11. `transformdy(float x, float y)`
12. `transformedvertex(float xf, float yf)`
13. `beginpoints()`
14. `endpoints()`
15. `beginline()`
16. `endline()`
17. `beginloop()`
18. `endloop()`
19. `beginpolygon()`
20. `endpolygon()`
21. `begincomplexpolygon()`
22. `gap()`
23. `endcomplexpolygon()`
24. `vertex(float x, float y)`
25. `curve(float X0, float Y0, float X1, float Y1, float X2, float Y2, float X3, float Y3)`
26. `plot(fvector xy, int thickness, fvector landmark)`
27. `plotcoords(fvector landmark, float x, float y)`
28. `point(int x, int y)`
29. `polygon(int x, int y, int x1, int y1, int x2, int y2, int x3, int y3)`
30. `popclip(int x, int y, int w, int h)`
31. `rectangle(int x, int y, int w, int h, int c)`
32. `rectanglefill(int x, int y, int w, int h, int c)`
33. `redraw()`
34. `redrawing(float t)`
35. `resizable(object)`
36. `run()`
37. `scrollbar(int x, int y, int wscroll, int hscroll, int vwscroll, int vhscroll)`
38. `size()`
39. `size(int x, int y, int w, int h)`
40. `sizerange(int minw, int minh, int maxw, int maxh)`
41. `textsize(string l)`
42. `unlock()`

### Colors

Tamgu ltk library implements a few simple ways to select colors. Colors are implemented as int.

The predefined colors are as follows:

- FL_GRAY0
- FL_DARK3
- FL_DARK2
- FL_DARK1
- FL_LIGHT1
- FL_LIGHT2
- FL_LIGHT3
- FL_BLACK
- FL_RED
- FL_GREEN
- FL_YELLOW
- FL_BLUE
- FL_MAGENTA
- FL_CYAN
- FL_DARK_RED
- FL_DARK_GREEN
- FL_DARK_YELLOW
- FL_DARK_BLUE
- FL_DARK_MAGENTA
- FL_DARK_CYAN
- FL_WHITE

To define your own colors, use the `rgbcolor` method:

- `vector rgb = rgbcolor(int c)`: Returns a vector containing the decomposition of the color c into its RGB components.
- `int c = rgbcolor(vector rgb)`: Takes a vector containing the RGB encoding and returns the equivalent color.
- `int c = rgbcolor(int r, int g, int b)`: Same as above, but takes the three components individually.

Each component is a value in the range of 0 to 255.

### Fonts

Tamgu ltk provides the following font codes:

- FL_HELVETICA
- FL_HELVETICA_BOLD
- FL_HELVETICA_ITALIC
- FL_HELVETICA_BOLD_ITALIC
- FL_COURIER
- FL_COURIER_BOLD
- FL_COURIER_ITALIC
- FL_COURIER_BOLD_ITALIC
- FL_TIMES
- FL_TIMES_BOLD
- FL_TIMES_ITALIC
- FL_TIMES_BOLD_ITALIC
- FL_SYMBOL
- FL_SCREEN
- FL_SCREEN_BOLD
- FL_ZAPF_DINGBATS
- FL_FREE_FONT
- FL_BOLD
- FL_ITALIC
- FL_BOLD_ITALIC

Example:

```cpp
use("gui");
window w;
map styles;
editor wo;
int ifont = 0;

function fontchoice(int idfont) {
    styles["#"] = [FL_BLACK, idfont, 16];
    wo.addstyle(styles);
    wo.label(w.getfont(idfont) + ":" + idfont);
    w.redraw();
}

button b(ifont) with fontchoice;
w.begin(50, 50, 800, 500, "Font Display");
w.sizerange(10, 10, 0, 0);
int i;
int nb = w.initializefonts();
string s, fonts;
vector v;

for (i = 0; i < nb; i++) {
    if (fonts != "")
        fonts += "\r";

    s = w.getfont(i);
    v = w.getfontsizes(i);
    fonts += i + ":" + s + "=" + v;
}

wo.value(fonts);
b.create(10, 10, 40, 30, FL_Regular, FL_NORMAL_BUTTON, "Next");
w.end();
w.resizable(wo);
w.run();
```

### Line Shapes

Tamgu ltk provides the following line shapes:

- FL_SOLID
- FL_DASH
- FL_DOT
- FL_DASHDOT
- FL_DASHDOTDOT
- FL_CAP_FLAT
- FL_CAP_ROUND
- FL_CAP_SQUARE
- FL_JOIN_MITER
- FL_JOIN_ROUND
- FL_JOIN_BEVEL

### Cursor Shapes

Tamgu ltk provides the following cursor shapes:

- FL_CURSOR_DEFAULT
- FL_CURSOR_ARROW
- FL_CURSOR_CROSS
- FL_CURSOR_WAIT
- FL_CURSOR_INSERT
- FL_CURSOR_HAND
- FL_CURSOR_HELP
- FL_CURSOR_MOVE
- FL_CURSOR_NS
- FL_CURSOR_WE
- FL_CURSOR_NWSE
- FL_CURSOR_NESW
- FL_CURSOR_NONE
- FL_CURSOR_N
- FL_CURSOR_NE
- FL_CURSOR_E
- FL_CURSOR_SE
- FL_CURSOR_S
- FL_CURSOR_SW
- FL_CURSOR_W
- FL_CURSOR_NW

### Simple Window

The philosophy in FLTK is to open a window object, fill it with as many widgets as you wish, and then close it. Once the window is ready, you simply run it to launch it.

Example:

```cpp
use("gui");
window w;
w.begin(300, 200, 1300, 150, "Modification");
w.sizerange(10, 20, 0, 0);
w.end();
w.run();
```

If you do not want to store any widgets in your window, you can replace the call to `begin` with a final `end` with `create`.

### Drawing Window

If you need to draw things such as lines or circles, you must provide the window with a new drawing function. In Tamgu, this function is provided through the `with` keyword, together with the object that will be passed to the drawing function.

Example:

```cpp
use("gui");
frame mycoord {
    int color;
    int x, y;
    function _initial() {
        color = FL_RED;
        x = 10;
        y = 10;
    }
}

mycoord coords;
coords._initial();

function display(window w, mycoord o) {
    w.drawcolor(o.color);
    w.lineshape(FL_DASH, 10);
    w.rectangle(o.x, o.y, 250, 250);
    w.drawtext("TEST", 100, 100);
}

window wnd(coords) with display;
wnd.create(100, 100, 300, 300, "Drawing");
wnd.run();
```

### Mouse

It is also possible to track different mouse actions through a callback function. The `onmouse` method associates a mouse action with a specific callback function.

Example:

```cpp
use("gui");
mycoord coords;

function display(window w, mycoord o) {
    w.drawcolor(o.color);
    w.lineshape(FL_DASH, 10);
    w.rectangle(o.x, o.y, 250, 250);
    w.drawtext("TEST", o.x + 20, o.y + 20);
}

function move(window w, map mousecoord, mycoord o) {
    o.x = mousecoord["x"];
    o.y = mousecoord["y"];
    w.redraw();
}

window wnd(coords) with display;
wnd.begin(100, 100, 300, 300, "Drawing");
wnd.sizerange(10, 10, 0, 0);
wnd.onmouse(FL_MOVE, move, coords);
wnd.end();
wnd.run();
```

### Keyboard

It is also possible to associate a keyboard action with a callback function. The `onkey` method is used for this purpose.

Example:

```cpp
use("gui");
mycoord coords;

function pressed(window w, string skey, int ikey, int comb, mycoord o) {
    if (skey == "T") {
        o.x += 10;
        o.y += 10;
        w.redraw();
    }
}

window wnd(coords) with display;
wnd.begin(100, 100, 300, 300, "Drawing");
wnd.sizerange(10, 10, 0, 0);
wnd.onkey(FL_KEYUP, pressed, coords);
wnd.end();
wnd.run();
```
