# Browsing Strings

The `browser` object defines a box in which strings can be displayed and, if necessary, selected as a list.

## Methods

1. `add(label)`: Add a string to the browser
2. `clear()`: Clear the browser from all values
3. `columnchar()`: Return the column char separator
4. `columnchar(string)`: Set the column char separator
5. `create(x, y, w, h, label)`: Create a browser
6. `deselect()`: Deselect all items
7. `deselect(int i)`: Deselect item i
8. `formatchar()`: Return the format char
9. `formatchar(string)`: Set the format char
10. `insert(l, label)`: Insert a label before line l
11. `load(filename)`: Load a file into the browser
12. `select()`: Return selected string
13. `select(int i)`: Return string at position i
14. `size()`: Return the number of values within the browser
15. `value()`: Return the current selected value as an index

## Selection

The only way to use the browser in selection mode is to associate it with a callback function whose signature must match the following:

```javascript
function browser_callback(browser b, myobject o);
```

A callback function is declared with `with`.

## Example

```javascript
use("gui");

// The callback function
function avec(browser b, self n) {
    println("Selection:", b.select(), b.value());
}

window w;
w.begin(40, 40, 400, 500, "Browsing");
browser b with avec;
b.create(10, 10, 100, 150, "Test");
b.add("first");
b.add("second");
b.add("third");
b.add("fourth");
w.end();
w.run();
```

# Wtree and Wtreeitem

These two objects are used to handle a tree, which is clickable. The first object is the tree object itself, which is composed of a set of `wtreeitem`. The object which is displayed is a hierarchy of nodes, which can each be selected through a callback function.

## Wtree Methods

1. `add(string path)`: Add a tree item and return the new `wtreeitem`
2. `add(wtreeitem e, string n)`: Add a tree item after e and return the new `wtreeitem`
3. `clear()`: Delete the tree items
4. `clicked()`: Return the element that was clicked
5. `close(string path)`: Close the element
6. `close(wtreeitem e)`: Close the element
7. `connectorcolor(int c)`: Set or return the connector color
8. `connectorstyle(int s)`: Set or return the connector style (see below)
9. `connectorwidth(int s)`: Set or return the connector width
10. `create(int x, int y, int h, int w, string label)`: Create a tree
11. `find(string path)`: Return the element matching the path
12. `first()`: Return the first element
13. `insert(wtreeitem e, string label, int pos)`: Insert an element after e with label at position pos in the children list
14. `insertabove(wtreeitem e, string label)`: Insert an element above e with label
15. `isclosed(string path)`: Return true if element is closed
16. `isclosed(wtreeitem e)`: Return true if element is closed
17. `itembgcolor(int c)`: Set or return the item background color
18. `itemfgcolor(int c)`: Set or return the foreground color
19. `itemfont(int c)`: Set or return the item font
20. `itemsize(int c)`: Set or return the item font size
21. `last()`: Return the last element as a `wtreeitem`
22. `marginleft(int s)`: Set or get the amount of white space (in pixels) that should appear between the widget's left border and the tree's contents
23. `margintop(int s)`: Set or get the amount of white space (in pixels) that should appear between the widget's top border and the top of the tree's contents
24. `next(wtreeitem e)`: Return the next element after e as a `wtreeitem`
25. `open(string path)`: Open the element
26. `open(wtreeitem e)`: Open the element
27. `previous(wtreeitem e)`: Return the previous element before e as a `wtreeitem`
28. `remove(wtreeitem e)`: Remove the element e from the tree
29. `root()`: Return the root element as a `wtreeitem`
30. `rootlabel(string r)`: Set the root label
31. `selectmode(int s)`: Set or return the selection mode (see below)
32. `sortorder(int s)`: Set or return the sort order (see below)

## Wtreeitem Methods

1. `activate()`: Activate the current element
2. `bgcolor(int c)`: Set or return the item background color
3. `child(int i)`: Return the child element at position i
4. `children()`: Return number of children
5. `clean()`: Remove the object associated through value
6. `deactivate()`: Deactivate the current element
7. `depth()`: Return the depth of the item
8. `fgcolor(int c)`: Set or return the foreground color
9. `font(int c)`: Set or return the item font
10. `fontsize(int c)`: Set or return the item font size
11. `isactive()`: Return true if element is active
12. `isclosed()`: Return true if element is closed
13. `isopen()`: Return true if element is open
14. `isroot()`: Return true if element is root
15. `isselected()`: Return true if element is selected
16. `label()`: Return the item label
17. `next()`: Return the next element
18. `parent()`: Return the last element
19. `previous()`: Return the previous element
20. `value()`: Return the value associated with the object
21. `value(object)`: Associate the item with a value

## Callback

It is possible to associate a `wtree` object with a callback. This callback must have the following signature:

```javascript
function wtree_callback(wtree t, wtreeitem i, int reason, myobject o);
```

This function will be called each time an item will be selected from the tree. Reason is one of the following values:

- `FL_TREE_REASON_NONE`: unknown reason
- `FL_TREE_REASON_SELECTED`: an item was selected
- `FL_TREE_REASON_DESELECTED`: an item was deselected
- `FL_TREE_REASON_OPENED`: an item was opened
- `FL_TREE_REASON_CLOSED`: an item was closed

## Iterator

The `wtree` object is iterable.

## Path

Certain functions such as `add` or `find` require a path. A path is similar to a Unix path and defines a path from the root to the leaf. For example: "/Root/Top/subnode".

## Connector Style

The style of connectors between nodes is controlled by the following flags:

- `FL_TREE_CONNECTOR_NONE`: Use no lines connecting items.
- `FL_TREE_CONNECTOR_DOTTED`: Use dotted lines connecting items (default).
- `FL_TREE_CONNECTOR_SOLID`: Use solid lines connecting items.

## Selection Mode

The way nodes are selected in the tree is controlled by the following flags:

- `FL_TREE_SELECT_NONE`: Nothing selected when items are clicked.
- `FL_TREE_SELECT_SINGLE`: Single item selected when item is clicked (default).
- `FL_TREE_SELECT_MULTI`: Multiple items can be selected by clicking with.

## Sort Order

Items can be added to the tree in an ordered manner controlled with the following flags:

- `FL_TREE_SORT_NONE`: No sorting; items are added in the order defined (default).
- `FL_TREE_SORT_ASCENDING`: Add items in ascending sort order.
- `FL_TREE_SORT_DESCENDING`: Add items in descending sort order.

## Example

```javascript
use("gui");

// This function is called whenever an item is selected or deselected
function avec(wtree t, wtreeitem i, int reason, self n) {
    // We change the size of the selected element
    if (reason == FL_TREE_REASON_SELECTED)
        i.fontsize(20);
    else if (reason == FL_TREE_REASON_DESELECTED)
        // The deselected element gets its previous size
        i.fontsize(FL_NORMAL_SIZE);
}

window w;
wtree mytree with avec;
wtreeitem ei;
w.begin(40, 40, 400, 500, "Browsing");
mytree.create(10, 10, 100, 150, "Test");
mytree.add("first");
mytree.add("second");
mytree.add("third");
mytree.add("fourth");
w.end();
w.run();
```

## Example from a Tree Object

```javascript
use("gui");

tree atree = {
    'a': {
        'b': {
            'c': 1
        },
        'd': 3
    }
};

function traversetree(tree t, wtree wt, wtreeitem e) {
    if (t == null)
        return;
    wtreeitem x;
    // First element is null
    if (e == null)
        x = wt.add(t);
    else
        x = wt.add(e, t);
    if (t.childnode() != null)
        traversetree(t.childnode(), wt, x);
    traversetree(t.nextnode(), wt, e);
}

window w;
wtree mytree;
w.begin(40, 40, 1000, 900, "Display tree");
mytree.create(20, 20, 950, 850, "my tree");
// The root of tree becomes the root of its representation
mytree.rootlabel(atree);
// We traverse our tree to build the representation out of it...
traversetree(atree.childnode(), mytree, null);
w.end();
w.run();
```