## Taskell Operations

Taskell provides a set of specific operations that can only be used in Taskell expressions. These operations are used to apply functions or methods to a list or to filter specific values. Other operations are used to duplicate or cycle through a list.

### `take nb list`

This function returns the first n elements of the list. It can be used to stop the iteration after a certain number of elements have been extracted, especially when looping through an infinite list.

**Example:**

```
take 10 [1,5..100]  -->  [1,5,9,13,17,21,25,29,33,37]
```

### `drop nb list`

This function returns everything except the first n elements of a list.

**Example:**

```
drop 10 [1,5..100]  -->  [41,45,49,53,57,61,65,69,73,77,81,85,89,93,97]
```

### `cycle list`

This method is used to cycle through a list. It can be combined with `take` to limit the number of cycles.

**Example:**

```
v = take 10 (cycle [1,2,3])  -->  [1,2,3,1,2,3,1,2,3,1]
```

### `repeat value`

This function creates a list where `value` is repeated indefinitely. It can also be combined with `take` to limit the number of repetitions.

**Example:**

```
v = take 10 (repeat 5)  -->  [5,5,5,5,5,5,5,5,5,5]
```

### `replicate nb value`

This function duplicates `value` in a list of `nb` elements.

**Example:**

```
replicate 3 [10]  -->  [[10],[10],[10]]
```

### Composition: `.`

When applying `take` on a list created through another function, the number of elements generated by the inner function can be controlled. This operation is called "composition" and it allows a program to limit the actions of sub-calls.

To simplify the writing of these compositions, you can use the composition operator `.`.

For example, the formula `take 10 (repeat 5)` can also be written as `take 10 . repeat 5`.

### `map (op) list`

This function applies an operation or a function to each element of a list. If `op` is reduced to an operator, then each element is combined with itself using this operator. Lambda expressions of the form `(\\x -> ...)` can also be used.

If a single operator is supplied, it is applied to each element together.

### `filter (condition) list`

The `filter` function is used to filter elements from a list based on a specific property. This property can be expressed using a comparison operator, a lambda expression, or a function that returns true or false.

**Examples:**

1. Keep values greater than 3:

   ```
   filter (>3) [1..10]  -->  [4,5,6,7,8,9,10]
   ```

2. Keep even values using a lambda expression:

   ```
   filter (\\x -> (x%2)==0) [1..10]  -->  [2,4,6,8,10]
   ```

3. Return the list of prime numbers among the first 1000 integers. `factors` returns the list of dividers for a given number: